medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2025.02.25.25322842; this version posted February 25, 2025. The copyright holder for this preprint
   (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity.
                                       It is made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license .




       An atlas and evidence-based appraisal framework of psychiatric brain stimulation targets
                                generated by causal network mapping

     Authors: Ryan D. Webler1,2, Andrew R. Pines1,2, Nicole Chiulli1,2, Goncalo Cotovio3,4, Ryan R.
     Darby5, Jing Jiang6-8, Juho Joutsa9-11, Ningfei Li12, Albino J. Oliveira-Maia3,4, Shaoling
     Peng1,13,14, Joseph J. Taylor1,2, Shan H. Siddiqi1,2

     Affiliations:

     1. Department of Psychiatry, Mass General Brigham, Harvard Medical School; Boston, USA.
     2. Center for Brain Circuit Therapeutics, Brigham & Women’s Hospital, Harvard Medical
     School; Boston, USA.
     3. Champalimaud Research and Clinical Centre, Champalimaud Foundation, Lisbon, Portugal.
     4. NOVA Medical School, Faculdade de Ciências Médicos, NMS, FCM, Universidade NOVA
     de Lisboa; Lisbon, Portugal.
     5. Department of Neurology, Vanderbilt University Medical Center; Nashville, TN.
     6. Department of Pediatrics, University of Iowa Carver College of Medicine; Iowa City, IA,
     USA.
     7. Department of Psychiatry, University of Iowa Carver College of Medicine; Iowa City, IA,
     USA.
     8. Iowa Neuroscience Institute, University of Iowa Carver College of Medicine; Iowa City, IA,
     USA.
     9. Turku Brain and Mind Center, University of Turku; Turku, Finland.
     10. Clinical Neurosciences, University of Turku; Turku, Finland.
     11. Neurocenter, Turku University Hospital; Turku, Finland
     12. Movement Disorder and Neuromodulation Unit, Department of Neurology, Charité-
     Universitätsmedizin; Berlin, Germany.
     13. State Key Laboratory of Cognitive Neuroscience and Learning & IDG/McGovern Institute
     for Brain Research, Beijing Normal University; Beijing, China.
     14. Department of Neurology, Boston Children’s Hospital, Harvard Medical School; Boston,
     MA, USA.

     Corresponding author: rwebler@bwh.harvard.edu




         NOTE: This preprint reports new research that has not been certified by peer review and should not be used to guide clinical practice.   1
medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2025.02.25.25322842; this version posted February 25, 2025. The copyright holder for this preprint
   (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity.
                                       It is made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license .




     Abstract: Causal network mapping is an emerging technique that can be used to derive optimal
     disorder/symptom-specific brain stimulation targets. This technique exploits incidental
     variability in brain lesion and brain stimulation locations, which creates a natural experiment in
     which causal inferences can be drawn between lesions or modulation of specific circuits and
     specific clinical outcomes. Circuits identified by causal network mapping, referred to as
     symptom-networks, represent candidate disorder/symptom-specific brain stimulation targets. The
     number of psychiatric symptom-networks has grown rapidly in recent years, creating a need for a
     comprehensive synthesis. To address this gap, this Resource presents an atlas of 12 psychiatric
     symptom-network targets and appraises them using an established evaluative framework. We
     describe how these targets can be localized with and without neuroimaging and highlight key
     considerations surrounding their trialing and implementation. These materials are designed to
     spur the translation of symptom-network targets and scaffold advancements in this quickly
     developing field.




                                                                                                                                        2
medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2025.02.25.25322842; this version posted February 25, 2025. The copyright holder for this preprint
   (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity.
                                       It is made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license .




     Introduction

              Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) has been investigated as a therapeutic
     intervention for psychiatric disorders since the 1990s and is currently the most commonly used
     brain stimulation technique in clinical practice (1–4). While its efficacy in depression is now
     well-established (5), establishing efficacy for other indications has been slow (6). This may be
     partly because the field has lacked an efficient process to generate and evaluate brain targets for
     new indications. Indeed, the main depression target has commonly been repurposed for other
     indications, often with disappointing results (7).
              Recent landmark studies indicate that different psychiatric symptom clusters localize to
     distinct circuits, which may be useful for stratifying patients between existing targets (8,9) and to
     generate new ones (10). One class of methods specifically designed to generate new
     disorder/symptom-specific targets is causal network mapping. Causal network mapping uses
     normative brain circuit maps, usually generated using resting-state functional magnetic
     resonance imaging (rs-fMRI), to trace circuits connecting brain lesions or stimulation sites that
     selectively modify specific disorders/symptoms (11). Causal inference is possible due to a
     natural experiment in which lesion or stimulation sites incidentally vary in their location. Brain
     lesions incidentally emerge in different locations depending on the characteristics of a stroke,
     head injury, or other form of focal brain damage. Brain stimulation sites also incidentally vary in
     clinical practice due to variability or imprecision in the techniques used to apply stimulation; for
     instance, most TMS clinics use scalp measurements to approximate the stimulation target. When
     lesions or stimulation to a specific circuit induce a specific outcome, it is possible to infer a
     causal relationship between the circuit and the outcome. Lesions are more commonly used than
     stimulation sites due to the availability of large-scale data on patients who developed various
     symptoms after a stroke or other types of focal brain damage.
              In principle, if damage to a particular brain circuit causes a symptom, then it may be
     reasonable to hypothesize that stimulating the same circuit would relieve that symptom. Data
     consistent with this possibility have emerged for different disorders, including depression (12),
     anxiety (13), tremor (14), both motor and cognitive symptoms in Parkinson’s disease (15,16),
     epilepsy (17), and vertigo (18). Across these disorders, lesions that incidentally cause a symptom
     map to a specific network, and TMS and/or deep brain stimulation (DBS) sites that incidentally
     target that network tend to modify that symptom. Broadly, this suggests that TMS and DBS may
     be prospectively applied to lesion-derived targets to reduce specific symptoms. Symptom-
     networks have been shown to outperform existing TMS target optimization strategies. For
     instance, TMS site connectivity to a depression symptom-network predicted depression
     reduction better than connectivity to the subgenual cingulate (19), the most common
     connectivity-based TMS target for depression (20).
              Symptom-network targets have been generated at a much faster rate than they have been
     trialed (21–23) or implemented (24,25). A key factor impeding translation is the lack of a
     framework to synthesize and appraise this library of targets as it grows (26). The current
     Resource presents an atlas of 12 psychiatric symptom-networks, proposed TMS targets within
     each network, and guidance for how to target them with and without neuroimaging. We appraise
     the evidence supporting each symptom-network target using the GRADE system (Grading of
     Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation), a framework used by the World
     Health Organization, American College of Physicians, Cochrane Collaboration, UpToDate, and
     other major public health organizations to help clinicians make evidence-based decisions (27).



                                                                                                                                        3
medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2025.02.25.25322842; this version posted February 25, 2025. The copyright holder for this preprint
   (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity.
                                       It is made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license .




     We discuss how symptom-network targets can be translated and how the framework used to
     evaluate them can shape advancements in the rapidly developing causal network mapping field.

     Results

     Symptom-Network Atlas

              Systematic search results are depicted in Supplementary Figure 1. The present atlas
     includes networks for 12 disorders/symptoms: addiction (28), aggression (29), anxiety (13),
     criminality (30), depression (19), emotional regulation (31), mania (32), obsessive-compulsive
     disorder (OCD)(33), pain (21), posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) (34), psychosis (35), and a
     transdiagnostic construct (36). Nine symptom networks were generated via lesion network
     mapping, one via DBS network mapping (OCD), and two via a combination of lesion, DBS, and
     TMS network mapping (depression and anxiety networks). Symptom-networks were
     standardized by correlating them with a normative functional connectome (37). For each voxel in
     the brain, we computed a spatial correlation to quantify the similarity between that voxel’s
     connectivity profile and the network in question (38). This analysis yields a map depicting the
     extent to which each voxel, if stimulated, would be expected to target the corresponding network
     (Figure 1). Results were normalized (i.e., Z-scored) to facilitate between-network comparison.
              Lesions and DBS presumably disrupt activity in affected brain areas and their positive
     connections. If disrupting network activity causes a symptom, then facilitating network activity
     should reduce it; thus, it is plausible that positive connections of lesions/DBS sites that cause a
     symptom may represent potential excitatory TMS targets (12,13). In contrast, negative
     connections of lesions/DBS sites that cause a disorder/symptom or positive connections of
     lesions/DBS sites that protect against or reduce a symptom may represent potential inhibitory
     TMS targets. However, it is important to note that the optimal stimulation paradigm is an
     empirical question that requires testing. Consistent with the above facilitation/disruption
     hypotheses, a recent study showed that lesions that cause depression and brain stimulation sites
     that relieve it map to a common network (19). As predicted, putatively facilitative excitatory
     TMS and disruptive DBS stimulation sites yielded inverted results. Similar results have also been
     seen for anxiety (13). In Figure 1, to facilitate visual comparison across sign inversions,
     networks generated by lesions/DBS sites that protect against or reduce a symptom were inverted
     in the maps below.




                                                                                                                                        4
medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2025.02.25.25322842; this version posted February 25, 2025. The copyright holder for this preprint
   (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity.
                                       It is made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license .




     Fig. 1 | Symptom-network atlas
     Whole-brain maps depicting the voxels whose connectivity profile best resembles each respective symptom-
     network. Depicted networks were thresholded at |Z| > 1.5. Positive connections of all networks represent potential
     excitatory TMS targets; negative connections represent potential inhibitory TMS targets.




                                                                                                                                        5
medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2025.02.25.25322842; this version posted February 25, 2025. The copyright holder for this preprint
   (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity.
                                       It is made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license .




     Relative Symptom-Network Signatures

             Several symptom-networks depicted in Figure 1 appear to share similar cortical
     signatures. To compare symptom-networks, we performed a winner-take-all analysis which
     parcellated the brain into regions most associated with each individual symptom network. Each
     voxel in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) was assigned to a symptom-network with which it showed
     greatest connectivity (Figure 2). We restricted our focus to positive PFC connections given that
     the vast majority of clinical TMS studies have applied excitatory TMS to PFC target spaces, so
     safety is well-established. Moreover, excitatory TMS incidentally applied to positive connections
     of lesions that cause a disorders/symptom has been shown to reduce that same disorder/symptom
     (12,13). The effect of inhibitory TMS on negative connections of disorder/symptom causing
     lesions remains uninvestigated.
             The winner-take-all map generated from this analysis demonstrates that different
     symptom-networks have unique relative positive connectivity signatures in the medial, lateral,
     and orbitofrontal PFC. Consistent with findings that excitatory left dlPFC TMS may be more
     effective for depression than other indications, the depression network showed the strongest
     positive connectivity to the left dlPFC.




     Fig. 2 | Winner-take-all map
     Thresholded symptom-networks (a) combined into a winner-take-all map in which each voxel was labeled with the
     most strongly associated network; (b) z-values for three different networks at three different voxels are shown.
     Networks 1, 2, and 3 had the highest z-value at voxels 1, 2, and 3, respectively. Therefore, voxels 1, 2, and 3 were
     associated with networks 1, 2, and 3, respectively.




                                                                                                                                        6
medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2025.02.25.25322842; this version posted February 25, 2025. The copyright holder for this preprint
   (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity.
                                       It is made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license .




     Proposed Symptom-Network TMS Targets

             The relative network signatures depicted in Figure 2 reveal PFC locations most strongly
     positively connected to each network compared to other networks. However, other PFC locations
     may be more strongly connected to a given symptom network – even if they are relatively more
     connected to another network. Stimulating locations that are most connected to a given network
     should have the greatest impact on the overall network. Therefore, our proposed symptom-
     network targets are mostly localized to PFC connectivity peaks.
             Proposed symptom-network targets are depicted alongside common locations used for
     TMS targeting in clinical practice in Figure 3 and their MNI coordinates are listed in Table 1.
     Scalp coordinates from newly developed, high-precision coordinate systems (continuous
     proportional coordinate space, CPC; Tetra codes) are also provided to facilitate implementation
     for the vast majority of cases in which neuroimaging-guided targeting is unavailable. CPC and
     Tetra codes transform 3-dimensional MNI brain coordinates into 2-dimensional scalp-atlas sites
     that can be manually marked or printed on commonly used scalp caps to guide TMS targeting.
     Details on how to implement these approaches can be found in two recent open-access
     publications (39,40).
              As depicted in Figure 3, most proposed symptom-network targets are relatively distant
     from common Figure-8 coil targets used to treat depression. Several are also outside the e-field
     of multiple H-coils used to treat depression, OCD, and addiction, indicating that re-orientation is
     likely required to stimulate these targets even when using broadly targeting coils.




                                                                                                                                        7
medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2025.02.25.25322842; this version posted February 25, 2025. The copyright holder for this preprint
   (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity.
                                       It is made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license .




     Fig. 3 | Symptom-network targets
     a. Proposed symptom-network targets labeled in color coded circles and several common locations for Figure-8
     coils. b. Proposed symptom-network targets overlaid on electric-fields of H-coils used to treat depression (H1 coil),
     addiction (H4 coil), and OCD (H7 coil). The H1 coil e-field was calculated using SimNIBS, while the H4 and H7
     coil e-fields were extracted from a prior publication (28). E-fields were standardized such that the max voxel was set
     to 100 and all other voxels set to a percentage of the max voxel.




         Table 1 | Symptom-network target coordinates
         Optimal symptom-network target MNI, continuous proportional coordinate space (CPC), and Tetra code
         coordinates are depicted.



     Symptom-Network TMS Target Grades

             Symptom-network target evaluations are shown in Figure 5. Here, we use the depression
     network target as an example of how these evaluations were performed. Explanations for other
     symptom-network evaluations can be found in Supplementary Materials.
             Of the network targets described here, the depression network target performs best
     against the GRADE criteria. Bias: The depression network target was not downgraded for bias,
     as the effects of key confounders including lesion size and overall symptom severity were
     accounted for. Moreover, spatial bias was limited by the inclusion of spatially heterogeneous
     lesion sites and brain stimulation sites spanning multiple targets. Inconsistency: It was not
     downgraded for inconsistency due to significant spatial correlations between the lesion, DBS,
     and TMS networks that comprise it. Indirectness: Although multiple data types and diagnoses
     were included in the depression network, it was not downgraded for indirectness because it
     included data from over 150 patients receiving TMS for MDD. Imprecision: It was not
     downgraded for imprecision, as it was derived from several large sample datasets that generally
     used high resolution techniques to localize lesions/brain stimulation sites. Large effect


                                                                                                                                        8
medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2025.02.25.25322842; this version posted February 25, 2025. The copyright holder for this preprint
   (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity.
                                       It is made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license .




     magnitude: The clinical effect sizes were relatively small, so the network was not upgraded for
     effect size. Effect suppression: It was upgraded for suppression, as the measured effect size was
     likely an underestimate due to integration of multiple causal data-sources with unique
     confounders. Dose effect: It was upgraded for dose-effect, as greater connectivity to the
     depression network predicted greater clinical improvement with therapeutic brain stimulation.
     Overall grade: The evidence supporting the depression network was evaluated as high quality.




                                                                                                                                        9
medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2025.02.25.25322842; this version posted February 25, 2025. The copyright holder for this preprint
   (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity.
                                       It is made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license .




     Fig. 4 | GRADE criteria
     a.Evidence weakening criteria. Bias: Incidentally varying lesions, TMS, and DBS sites are pseudorandomly
     distributed, introducing spatial bias. Lesions are associated with the least spatial bias, as they are more likely to
     occur near blood vessels but are spatially diffuse. TMS is associated with more spatial bias, as it is applied to a
     limited number of target spaces. DBS is associated with the most spatial bias, as it is applied within small sub-
     nuclei. Prospectively targeting random locations with TMS would eliminate spatial bias. Inconsistency:
     Inconsistency is present if a disorder/symptom maps to different networks using different causal modalities.
     Consistency can be established by convergence across causal modalities. Indirectness: A symptom-network derived
     for the purpose of generating an optimal TMS target for MDD would be slightly indirect if generated from DBS
     sites in MDD patients, more indirect if generated from DBS sites in Parkinson’s patients with depression symptoms,
     and most indirect if generated from lesion sites in stroke patients with depression symptoms. A network generated
     from TMS sites in MDD patients would be most direct. Imprecision: Lesions localized using 2d case report images,
     TMS sites identified using scalp markers and retrospectively localized using a fiducial marker, and DBS sites
     localized to a sub-nucleus are imprecise. Lesions localized using original brain scans, TMS sites determined using
     neuroimaging and localized using neuronavigation, and DBS sites localized postoperatively using lead localization
     are precise.
     b.Evidence strengthening criteria. Large effect magnitude: TMS delivered to the Parkinson’s network may generate
     a small effect that results in the gradual reduction of tremor symptoms. DBS delivered to the Parkinson’s network
     may generate a large effect that results in the immediate elimination of tremor symptoms. Effect suppression:



                                                                                                                                      10
medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2025.02.25.25322842; this version posted February 25, 2025. The copyright holder for this preprint
   (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity.
                                       It is made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license .




     Different causal methods introduce unique sources of error which may suppress effects, as depicted by small
     differences in networks generated by lesions, TMS, and DBS. Dose effect: A significant relationship between brain
     stimulation site connectivity and clinical effects indicates a dose effect. As depicted here, stronger TMS site
     connectivity to the network (connectivity increases from red, to orange, to yellow) yields greater clinical effects.




                                                                                                                                      11
medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2025.02.25.25322842; this version posted February 25, 2025. The copyright holder for this preprint
   (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity.
                                       It is made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license .




     Fig. 5 | Symptom-network target grades
     Each symptom-network target was evaluated on the basis of the GRADE criteria and given a composite score.
     Consistent with the GRADE framework, these grades are defined as the following. High quality: Further research is
     very unlikely to change our confidence in the estimate of effect. Moderate quality: Further research is likely to have
     an important impact on our confidence in the estimate of effect and may change the estimate. Low quality: Further
     research is very likely to have an important impact on our confidence in the estimate and is likely to change the
     estimate. Very low quality: We are very uncertain about the estimate.

     Discussion

             The current Resource includes 12 psychiatric symptom-networks, proposed TMS targets
     for each network, and a GRADE-informed evaluation of these targets. These materials can help
     clinicians locate symptom-network targets for approved indications and decide which of these
     targets to stimulate for a given patient on the basis of clinical need and the current evidence-base.
     They can also inform clinical trials and guide advancements in causal network mapping methods.
             In the United States, TMS is an FDA-cleared treatment for depression, OCD, addiction,
     and anxiety comorbid with depression. Proposed symptom-network targets for these indications
     fall within FDA-cleared target spaces and were evaluated as high quality. Therefore, they may be
     considered for direct clinical implementation. In clinics where neuroimaging is available, a brief
     structural MRI (i.e., 6-minute T1) can be collected, target coordinates can be transformed to
     individual patient space, and neuronavigation can be used to orient to these coordinates in each
     patient. In cases where advanced neuroimaging (e.g. resting-state functional MRI) is available,
     the targets may be further personalized based on individualized connectivity (34). When
     neuroimaging is unavailable, scalp landmarks can be used to approximate target locations (41).
     While this comes with a tradeoff in precision, it enables more widespread implementation, as
     most TMS clinics currently identify targets using scalp measurements. For example, the
     depression target can be approximated using the Beam F3 method, which is commonly used in
     clinical practice and has been employed by many clinical trials (42,43). Newly developed scalp
     coordinate systems such as CPC and Tetra codes can also be used to target symptom-networks
     (see Table 1), which may increase precision compared to standard scalp targeting approaches.
     Adoption of these systems is supported by open-access resources (39,40).
             Diffuse H-coils (i.e., H1, H4, and H7) also overlap with some proposed targets. While
     these coils are less precise, they stimulate a larger brain volume, which may be useful for
     network-level stimulation. H-coils also carry the added benefit of being supported by multi-
     center clinical trials with associated FDA clearances for specific indications. The H1 coil, which
     overlaps with the depression, addiction, OCD, PTSD, psychosis, and mania targets, is cleared by
     the FDA for MDD. The H4 coil, which overlaps with the addiction, PTSD, and psychosis targets,
     is cleared for nicotine use disorder. The H7 coil, which overlaps with the OCD target, the
     addiction target, and several others, is cleared for OCD. Each of these clearances was supported
     by FDA-registered multi-center clinical trials. The H7 coil is also supported by a multi-center
     clinical trial for alcohol use disorder (44), but is not cleared by the FDA for this indication at the
     time of this writing.
             In complex cases where multiple FDA-cleared TMS indications are present, clinicians
     could balance considerations of evidence strength and clinical need (i.e., acute risk/distress) and
     work collaboratively with patients to determine which symptom-network target to stimulate. For
     example, a patient presenting with depression, OCD, and substance use disorder might be a
     candidate for at least three symptom-network targets. If all disorders/symptoms are equally
     severe, the depression target might be favored because it currently has the highest evidence


                                                                                                                                      12
medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2025.02.25.25322842; this version posted February 25, 2025. The copyright holder for this preprint
   (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity.
                                       It is made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license .




     quality. If the clinician believes that the patient’s OCD is most severe and/or is driving the other
     symptoms, then the OCD target might be recommended. If the patient feels that their substance
     use is causing the most acute distress, then the addiction target might be chosen due to the
     patient’s stated priorities.
              Clinicians may be tempted to target multiple symptom-networks for FDA-cleared
     indications during the same treatment course. However, this adds an untested variable to the
     treatment, creating potential interaction effects between multiple targets. For instance,
     stimulating multiple networks may produce iatrogenic push-pull effects that counteract each
     other. This possibility is supported by at least one randomized trial in which motor cortex TMS
     significantly reduced motoric Parkinson’s symptoms relative to sham, but motor cortex TMS
     combined with dlPFC TMS did not (45). These and other findings showing that TMS can
     unintentionally worsen some symptoms (46) support the prioritization of single-target TMS
     protocols with established safety/efficacy over currently unsupported multi-target protocols.
     However, multi-target protocols may still become valuable in the future with clinical trials that
     carefully account for added variables introduced by multi-target protocols, such as the
     correlation between the targeted networks, the time interval between targets to avoid disturbing
     immediate post-stimulation homeostatic effects, the optimal order of targets, the ideal
     stimulation parameters for each target, and other factors. Due to these open questions, at the
     current time we can only recommend stimulating one target at a time.
              Clinical decision-making should be shaped by the accumulation of new evidence, which
     will likely lead to changes in current symptom-network target ratings. For example, the
     depression network target could be prospectively trialed against another network target not
     linked to depression. A positive result would further reduce bias and strongly demonstrate
     specificity. A negative result from a trial like this, or from future causal network mapping
     analyses, could lead to the downgrading of a given network target. New evidence will also likely
     lead to the inclusion of additional symptom-networks generated from lesions and brain
     stimulation methods including TMS and DBS, as well as by newer methods such as transcranial
     focused ultrasound (tFUS). The addition of network targets generated by new methods, and for
     use by those methods, will require independent appraisal using criteria like those presented here.
              Clinical trials of current and future symptom-network targets are necessary. If safety and
     efficacy have not yet been established, sham-controlled trials are critical. For established
     indications, head-to-head clinical trials are still valuable to compare distinct targets for the
     purpose of target optimization. Current optimal symptom-network TMS targets are generally
     restricted to the PFC given that the vast majority of psychiatric clinical TMS trials have
     stimulated PFC target spaces and safety and efficacy/effectiveness data are therefore strongest
     for PFC targets. However, symptom-networks are distributed and include many brain areas
     outside the PFC. Future clinical symptom-network trials should compare proposed PFC network
     targets against non-PFC target locations. For example, a future comparative depression network
     trial could test the well supported dlPFC network location against the depression network peak
     located in the inferior parietal lobule.
              Causal network mapping may yield superior brain stimulation targets compared to other
     approaches but current symptom-networks have noteworthy limitations that could be redressed
     by methodological advancements consistent with the standards outlined here. For example,
     variance in lesion and stimulation site location is incidental but not entirely random. Lesions
     occur throughout the brain but are more likely to occur in certain areas (e.g., blood vessels in the
     case of stroke); brain stimulation sites cluster around a small number of common target spaces.



                                                                                                                                      13
medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2025.02.25.25322842; this version posted February 25, 2025. The copyright holder for this preprint
   (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity.
                                       It is made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license .




     While specificity analyses help to control for this bias, the use of prospective experimental
     designs that apply TMS to random locations within established target spaces would mitigate it.
     Another limitation is the use of questionnaires (sometimes single questionnaire items) with
     questionable reliability/validity for measuring a specific construct that is encoded in the brain.
     Imprecision introduced by poor behavioral measurement could be addressed through the use of
     more reliable and valid psychometric batteries. Leveraging individualized rs-fMRI could further
     decrease imprecision by accounting for individual differences in functional connectivity (47) that
     are obscured by group-level connectomes. Another limitation is potential publication bias, which
     has not been formally assessed in this literature, and could be mitigated by pre-registration.
     Finally, it must be acknowledged that the vast majority of causal network mapping studies have
     been published by the group that includes authors of this Resource. The expansion of causal
     network mapping to new research groups and the application of methodological advancements
     consistent with the framework described here could significantly strengthen the field.
             In conclusion, the present Resource is designed to support the translation of symptom-
     network targets which has been slowed by the lack of a consensus resource. The GRADE-
     informed evaluative framework presented herein is intended to provide a set of standards that
     guide clinicians to implement symptom-network targets when appropriate and researchers to trial
     current targets and generate new ones.

     Methods

     Symptom-Network Search Criteria

             Psychiatric symptom networks were identified via a systematic search (performed by RW
     and AP) on PubMed, Web of Knowledge, and Embase that used the following terms: (‘lesion’
     OR ‘brain lesion’ OR ‘deep brain stimulation’ OR ‘DBS’ OR ‘transcranial magnetic stimulation’
     OR ‘TMS’) AND (‘circuit mapping’ OR ‘network mapping’ OR ‘lesion network mapping’ OR
     ‘causal network mapping’ OR ‘convergent causal mapping’ OR ‘common brain circuit’ OR
     ‘common brain network’ OR ‘network target’) AND (‘psychiatric’ OR ‘neuropsychiatric’ OR
     ‘psychiatric symptoms’ OR ‘neuropsychiatric symptoms’). When multiple networks existed for a
     given disorder/symptom (e.g., two depression networks), the network generated from the larger
     dataset was selected. To promote inclusivity, psychiatric disorders/symptoms were defined
     liberally to include any disorder/symptom linked to a Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of
     Mental Illness (DSM-5) classification. For example, criminality and aggression were included as
     they are correlates of antisocial personality disorder (48,49), a DSM-5 classification. Pain was
     included because it is a common psychiatric comorbidity (50) and a common manifestation of
     somatic symptom disorders (51).

     Symptom-Network Comparison

              Networks were standardized by correlating them with a normative functional connectome
     that estimates the functional connectivity of each voxel to every other voxel in the brain. This
     database is comprised of functional connectivity data from 1,000 healthy young adults (37). For
     each voxel in the brain, we computed a spatial correlation to quantify the similarity between that
     voxel’s connectivity profile and the network in question (38). Results were Z-scored to facilitate
     between-network comparison. Relative network signatures were identified via a winner-take-all



                                                                                                                                      14
medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2025.02.25.25322842; this version posted February 25, 2025. The copyright holder for this preprint
   (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity.
                                       It is made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license .




     analysis that assigned each voxel to the symptom-network it is maximally connected to. We
     focus here on positive prefrontal cortex (PFC) connections because most clinical TMS studies
     have used excitatory TMS to stimulate PFC targets.

     Symptom-Network Targets

            In addition to standardizing symptom networks, correlating each symptom-network with
     the normative connectome revealed locations with strong connectivity to each network which
     represent candidate TMS targets. Proposed targets were generally PFC voxels that showed the
     strongest positive connectivity to each symptom-network. To examine the effect of different
     TMS coils on these targets, we plotted them on a brain surface alongside several common
     Figure-8 depression targets as well as the estimated electrical-field (e-field) current of three deep
     TMS coils used to treat depression, OCD, and addiction.

     Evaluating Symptom-Networks

             Two authors (RW and AP) independently evaluated symptom-networks using the
     GRADE framework. Consensus was then reached and final evaluations were reviewed and
     approved by the senior author (SS). GRADE includes eight factors that weaken or strengthen
     evidence quality (52). Factors that weaken evidence quality are (1) study bias, (2) inconsistency,
     (3) indirectness, (4) imprecision, and (5) publication bias. Factors that strengthen evidence
     quality are (6) large effect magnitude, (7) study design features that likely suppress effect
     magnitude, and (8) demonstrated dose-response gradient.
             Study bias refers to methodological limitations that increase the probability of a
     misleading outcome. Bias is reduced when confounders are eliminated; the gold standard for
     unbiased studies is a randomized controlled trial, in which the intervention is the only factor that
     systematically differs between groups. This is a useful way to minimize bias when comparing a
     TMS target to sham, but not when seeking to identify a new target, as it is impractical to
     compare every possible TMS site in a randomized trial. Causal network mapping addresses this
     retrospectively by contrasting lesion and brain stimulation sites that cause or modify a symptom
     against those that do not (11). A strength of this approach is that it contrasts many lesion/brain
     stimulation sites simultaneously, increasing the probability that an optimal target will be
     identified. A weakness is that these sites are only pseudorandomly distributed, as lesions occur
     more frequently in certain brain areas (i.e., near blood vessels) and brain stimulation sites cluster
     within a small set of common targets. This inherently biases significant results to specific brain
     areas and their connections. Spatial bias is lower with lesions, which occur throughout the brain,
     more apparent with TMS, which is applied to individual target spaces, and most apparent with
     DBS, which is applied to specific subnuclei. Overall, spatial bias introduced by these methods is
     less than in typical brain stimulation RCTs which typically restrict their focus to a single target.
     We therefore did not generally downgrade symptom-networks for bias if they included control
     analyses that: (1) accounted for confounders such as lesion size and overall symptom severity,
     and (2) demonstrated that the network effects were specific to the given disorder/symptom.
     However, maps generated by DBS sites alone were downgraded due to the limited spatial
     variability of DBS sites and the spatial bias this causes.
             Inconsistency refers to heterogeneity of an effect across studies/methods. Symptom-
     network consistency is typically demonstrated via spatial correlations between two halves of the



                                                                                                                                      15
medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2025.02.25.25322842; this version posted February 25, 2025. The copyright holder for this preprint
   (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity.
                                       It is made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license .




     same data-set (split-half consistency), different datasets using the same causal method (e.g.,
     multiple lesion datasets), or different datasets using a different causal method (e.g., lesion and
     TMS datasets). A significant spatial correlation between symptom-networks generated using
     different causal methods is a particularly strong indicator of consistency given that confounders
     from one method may be mitigated by other methods. Spatial correlations between symptom-
     networks and high-quality neuroimaging results (i.e., meta-analytic or consortium level) are also
     commonly tested, even though these results are correlative rather than causal. We downgraded
     symptom-networks for inconsistency if significant within (i.e., split-half) or out-of-sample
     network similarities were not established.
              Indirectness is the extent to which the intended use of a target differs from the published
     studies on that target. The most direct symptom-networks are those that are derived from the
     same symptom/diagnosis being treated and the same method being applied. For example, a
     depression map derived for the purposes of optimizing a TMS target for major depressive
     disorder (MDD) is most direct if generated from participants with MDD using TMS network
     mapping. A depression map generated for the same purpose using LNM, or from a
     transdiagnostic sample with depression symptoms, is less direct. We downgraded symptom-
     networks for indirectness if they were derived purely from lesion data or samples that were
     significantly different from the target population.
              Imprecision refers to factors that widen the confidence interval around an effect.
     Larger sample sizes improve the precision of symptom-networks. Of note, different causal
     methods require different sample sizes to achieve similar effects. For example, DBS is the most
     focal causal method which reduces the number of participants needed to map symptom-networks
     compared to TMS and lesions. DBS and TMS studies also generally include pre and post
     intervention symptom data which more tightly links symptoms to circuit modulation, reducing
     the number of participants needed compared to lesion studies. In addition to large sample sizes,
     the use of high spatial resolution localization methods also improves precision. With lesions,
     high spatial resolution can be achieved with careful manual tracing of the original CT/MRI scan,
     while precision is reduced if the lesion was traced based on a 2-dimensional picture from a case
     report. With TMS sites, spatial resolution can be maximized with MRI neuronavigation (53),
     while precision is reduced if non-neuroimaging methods (e.g., scalp measurements) are used.
     With DBS sites, spatial resolution can be maximized with postoperative lead localization within
     the targeted nucleus (54,55), and precision is reduced if different nuclei are compared with one
     another (56,57). We downgraded symptom-networks for imprecision if they were derived from
     small samples or used low spatial resolution methods to localize lesion/brain stimulation target
     sites.
              Publication bias refers to the overrepresentation of positive results in the published
     literature. Pre-registration counters publication bias by restricting analytical freedom, reducing
     the probability of false positive results. To our knowledge, no causal mapping studies have pre-
     registered their analytical plans to date, and a formal analysis of publication bias in this literature
     has not been performed. In lieu of clear evidence pertaining to publication bias, we did not
     evaluate symptom-networks using this criterion. However, we emphasize the lack of pre-
     registration as a general limitation of causal network mapping studies conducted to date and
     encourage formal assessment of publication bias in this growing literature.
              A large effect magnitude is an evidence strengthening factor. Clinical effects are
     particularly relevant for evaluating the translational value of a symptom-network. Clinical effects
     can be tested retrospectively in a number of ways, including by assessing the degree to which



                                                                                                                                      16
medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2025.02.25.25322842; this version posted February 25, 2025. The copyright holder for this preprint
   (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity.
                                       It is made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license .




     TMS/DBS site connectivity to a symptom network predicts symptom change. They can also be
     assessed prospectively by applying stimulation to a symptom-network target in a randomized
     trial.
              Sometimes an effect may be underestimated by study design features that suppress its
     observable magnitude. The presence of a significant result despite such suppression increases
     confidence in an observed effect and is therefore another evidence strengthening factor. Like
     other synthesis methods, causal network mapping commonly involves aggregating studies that
     differ in key ways, including the patient populations sampled and the way their symptoms are
     measured. Although these differences plausibly induce noise and decrease the observable
     magnitude of an effect, they are not typically considered sufficient to meet the threshold for
     effect suppression. However, aggregating multiple types of causal evidence (e.g., lesions and
     TMS sites) into one symptom-network has been shown to reduce effect sizes, whereby the effect
     size of a depression network generated by one type of causal data was larger (10) than the effect
     size of a depression networks generated by multiple types (12). Therefore, we upgraded
     symptom-networks generated by more than one type of causal data.
              A final evidence strengthening factor is a dose-response gradient, whereby dose strength
     predicts clinical effects. A brain stimulation target site with stronger connectivity to a given
     symptom-network would putatively deliver a stronger stimulation dose to that network. If brain
     stimulation site connectivity to the network predicts symptom change that would therefore
     support a dose-response gradient. Another way to demonstrate a dose-effect is to show that the
     electrical-field induced by an established TMS protocol overlaps with areas showing strong
     connectivity to a given network. Dose-response gradients can also be assessed via prospective
     TMS/DBS RCTs that apply stimulation to optimized targets while varying stimulation
     parameters (i.e., number of pulses, sessions, etc.). We upgraded symptom-networks if they
     demonstrated a dose-response gradient in one of these ways.
              The overall strength of evidence supporting a given symptom-network was evaluated by
     combining information from each GRADE factor into a composite score. Symptom-networks
     that were not downgraded (or were boosted by an equivalent number of levels) were rated high
     quality. Symptom-networks that were downgraded one, two, and three levels were rated
     moderate, low, and very low quality, respectively.




                                                                                                                                      17
medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2025.02.25.25322842; this version posted February 25, 2025. The copyright holder for this preprint
   (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity.
                                       It is made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license .




     References:

     1. George MS, Wassermann EM, Williams WA, Callahan A, Ketter TA, Basser P, et al. Daily
        repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) improves mood in depression.
        Neuroreport. 1995;6(14):1853–6.

     2. Conca A, Koppi S, König P, Swoboda E, Krecke N. Transcranial magnetic stimulation: a
        novel antidepressive strategy? Neuropsychobiology. 1996;34(4):204–7.

     3. George MS, Wassermann EM, Kimbrell TA, Little JT, Williams WE, Danielson AL, et al.
        Mood improvement following daily left prefrontal repetitive transcranial magnetic
        stimulation in patients with depression: a placebo-controlled crossover trial. Am J Psychiatry.
        1997;154(12):1752–6.

     4. Pascual-Leone A, Rubio B, Pallardó F, Catalá MD. Rapid-rate transcranial magnetic
        stimulation of left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex in drug-resistant depression. The Lancet.
        1996;348(9022):233–7.

     5. Fitzgerald PB, George MS, Pridmore S. The evidence is in: Repetitive transcranial magnetic
        stimulation is an effective, safe and well-tolerated treatment for patients with major
        depressive disorder. Aust N Z J Psychiatry. 2022;56(7):745–51.

     6. Cotovio G, Ventura F, Rodrigues da Silva D, Pereira P, Oliveira-Maia AJ. Regulatory
        clearance and approval of therapeutic protocols of transcranial magnetic stimulation for
        psychiatric disorders. Brain Sci. 2023;13(7):1029.

     7. Kan RL, Padberg F, Giron CG, Lin TT, Zhang BB, Brunoni AR, et al. Effects of repetitive
        transcranial magnetic stimulation of the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex on symptom
        domains in neuropsychiatric disorders: a systematic review and cross-diagnostic meta-
        analysis. Lancet Psychiatry. 2023;10(4):252–9.

     8. Drysdale AT, Grosenick L, Downar J, Dunlop K, Mansouri F, Meng Y, et al. Resting-state
        connectivity biomarkers define neurophysiological subtypes of depression. Nat Med.
        2017;23(1):28–38.

     9. Tozzi L, Bertrand C, Hack LM, Lyons T, Olmsted AM, Rajasekharan D, et al. A cognitive
        neural circuit biotype of depression showing functional and behavioral improvement after
        transcranial magnetic stimulation in the B-SMART-fMRI trial. Nat Ment Health. 2024;1–12.

     10. Siddiqi SH, Taylor SF, Cooke D, Pascual-Leone A, George MS, Fox MD. Distinct symptom-
         specific treatment targets for circuit-based neuromodulation. Am J Psychiatry.
         2020;177(5):435–46.

     11. Siddiqi SH, Kording KP, Parvizi J, Fox MD. Causal mapping of human brain function. Nat
         Rev Neurosci. 2022;23(6):361–75.




                                                                                                                                      18
medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2025.02.25.25322842; this version posted February 25, 2025. The copyright holder for this preprint
   (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity.
                                       It is made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license .




     12. Siddiqi SH, Schaper FL, Horn A, Hsu J, Padmanabhan JL, Brodtmann A, et al. Brain
         stimulation and brain lesions converge on common causal circuits in neuropsychiatric
         disease. Nat Hum Behav. 2021;5(12):1707–16.

     13. Siddiqi SH, Klingbeil J, Webler R, Kratter IH, Blumberger DM, Fox MD, et al. Causal
         network localization of brain stimulation targets for trait anxiety. Res Sq. 2024;

     14. Joutsa J, Shih LC, Fox MD. Mapping holmes tremor circuit using the human brain
         connectome. Ann Neurol. 2019;86(6):812–20.

     15. Joutsa J, Horn A, Hsu J, Fox MD. Localizing parkinsonism based on focal brain lesions.
         Brain. 2018;141(8):2445–56.

     16. Reich MM, Hsu J, Ferguson M, Schaper FL, Joutsa J, Roothans J, et al. A brain network for
         deep brain stimulation induced cognitive decline in Parkinson’s disease. Brain.
         2022;145(4):1410–21.

     17. Schaper FL, Nordberg J, Cohen AL, Lin C, Hsu J, Horn A, et al. Mapping lesion-related
         epilepsy to a human brain network. JAMA Neurol. 2023;80(9):891–902.

     18. Li Y, Qi L, Schaper FL, Wu D, Friedrich M, Du J, et al. A vertigo network derived from
         human brain lesions and brain stimulation. Brain Commun. 2023;5(2):fcad071.

     19. Siddiqi SH, Schaper FL, Horn A, Hsu J, Padmanabhan JL, Brodtmann A, et al. Brain
         stimulation and brain lesions converge on common causal circuits in neuropsychiatric
         disease. Nat Hum Behav. 2021;5(12):1707–16.

     20. Cole EJ, Stimpson KH, Bentzley BS, Gulser M, Cherian K, Tischler C, et al. Stanford
         accelerated intelligent neuromodulation therapy for treatment-resistant depression. Am J
         Psychiatry. 2020;177(8):716–26.

     21. Kim NY, Taylor JJ, Kim YW, Borsook D, Joutsa J, Li J, et al. Network effects of brain
         lesions causing central poststroke pain. Ann Neurol. 2022;92(5):834–45.

     22. Raymond N, Reinhart RM, Trotti R, Parker D, Grover S, Turkozer B, et al. A pilot study to
         investigate the efficacy and tolerability of lesion network guided transcranial electrical
         stimulation in outpatients with psychosis spectrum illness. Asian J Psychiatry.
         2023;88:103750.

     23. Taylor J, Li J, Lin C, Jones E, Frandsen S, Becker C, et al. Symptom-specific brain circuit
         stimulation: A head-to-head randomized trial. 2024;

     24. DeSouza DD, Nakano E, Hoang V, Hoang K, Ling D, Muir O, et al. Real-World Outcomes
         and Predictors of Accelerated rTMS Treatment Response for Treatment-Resistant
         Depression. medRxiv. 2024;2024–05.

     25. Croarkin PE, Dojnov A, Middleton VJ, Bowman J, Kriske J, Donachie N, et al. Accelerated
         1 Hz dorsomedial prefrontal transcranial magnetic stimulation for generalized anxiety


                                                                                                                                      19
medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2025.02.25.25322842; this version posted February 25, 2025. The copyright holder for this preprint
   (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity.
                                       It is made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license .




           disorder in adolescents and young adults: A case series. Brain Stimul Basic Transl Clin Res
           Neuromodulation. 2024;17(2):269–71.

     26. Siddiqi SH, Fox MD. Targeting symptom-specific networks with TMS. Biol Psychiatry.
         2023;

     27. Guyatt GH, Oxman AD, Vist GE, Kunz R, Falck-Ytter Y, Alonso-Coello P, et al. GRADE: an
         emerging consensus on rating quality of evidence and strength of recommendations. Bmj.
         2008;336(7650):924–6.

     28. Joutsa J, Moussawi K, Siddiqi SH, Abdolahi A, Drew W, Cohen AL, et al. Brain lesions
         disrupting addiction map to a common human brain circuit. Nat Med. 2022;28(6):1249–55.

     29. Peng S, Schaper FL, Cohen-Zimerman S, Miller GN, Jiang J, Rouhl RP, et al. Mapping
         lesion-related human aggression to a common brain network. Biol Psychiatry. 2024;

     30. Darby RR, Horn A, Cushman F, Fox MD. Lesion network localization of criminal behavior.
         Proc Natl Acad Sci. 2018;115(3):601–6.

     31. Jiang J, Ferguson MA, Grafman J, Cohen AL, Fox MD. A lesion-derived brain network for
         emotion regulation. Biol Psychiatry. 2023;94(8):640–9.

     32. Cotovio G, Talmasov D, Barahona-Corrêa JB, Hsu J, Senova S, Ribeiro R, et al. Mapping
         mania symptoms based on focal brain damage. J Clin Invest. 2020;130(10):5209–22.

     33. Li N, Hollunder B, Baldermann JC, Kibleur A, Treu S, Akram H, et al. A unified functional
         network target for deep brain stimulation in obsessive-compulsive disorder. Biol Psychiatry.
         2021;90(10):701–13.

     34. Siddiqi SH, Philip NS, Palm ST, Carreon DM, Arulpragasam AR, Barredo J, et al. A
         potential target for noninvasive neuromodulation of PTSD symptoms derived from focal
         brain lesions in veterans. Nat Neurosci. 2024;1–9.

     35. Pines AR, Frandsen SB, Drew W, Meyer GM, Howard C, Palm ST, et al. Lesions that Cause
         Psychosis Map to a Common Brain Circuit in the Hippocampus. bioRxiv. 2024;2024–04.

     36. Taylor JJ, Lin C, Talmasov D, Ferguson MA, Schaper FL, Jiang J, et al. A transdiagnostic
         network for psychiatric illness derived from atrophy and lesions. Nat Hum Behav.
         2023;7(3):420–9.

     37. Yeo BT, Krienen FM, Sepulcre J, Sabuncu MR, Lashkari D, Hollinshead M, et al. The
         organization of the human cerebral cortex estimated by intrinsic functional connectivity. J
         Neurophysiol. 2011;

     38. Cohen, A., Soussand, L., McManus, P., Fox, M. GSP1000 Preprocessed Connectome.
         Harvard Dataverse; 2020.




                                                                                                                                      20
medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2025.02.25.25322842; this version posted February 25, 2025. The copyright holder for this preprint
   (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity.
                                       It is made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license .




     39. Liu F, Zhang Z, Chen Y, Wei L, Xu Y, Li Z, et al. MNI2CPC: A probabilistic cortex-to-scalp
         mapping for non-invasive brain stimulation targeting. Brain Stimulat. 2023;16(6):1733–42.

     40. Li Y, Peterchev AV, Downar J. Tetra codes: A precise, concise notation system for scalp
         neuronavigation. Brain Stimul Basic Transl Clin Res Neuromodulation. 2024;17(5):1142–4.

     41. Xiao X, Yu X, Zhang Z, Zhao Y, Jiang Y, Li Z, et al. Transcranial brain atlas. Sci Adv.
         2018;4(9):eaar6904.

     42. O’Reardon JP, Solvason HB, Janicak PG, Sampson S, Isenberg KE, Nahas Z, et al. Efficacy
         and safety of transcranial magnetic stimulation in the acute treatment of major depression: a
         multisite randomized controlled trial. Biol Psychiatry. 2007;62(11):1208–16.

     43. George MS, Lisanby SH, Avery D, McDonald WM, Durkalski V, Pavlicova M, et al. Daily
         left prefrontal transcranial magnetic stimulation therapy for major depressive disorder: a
         sham-controlled randomized trial. Arch Gen Psychiatry. 2010;67(5):507–16.

     44. Harel M, Perini I, Kämpe R, Alyagon U, Shalev H, Besser I, et al. Repetitive transcranial
         magnetic stimulation in alcohol dependence: a randomized, double-blind, sham-controlled
         proof-of-concept trial targeting the medial prefrontal and anterior cingulate cortices. Biol
         Psychiatry. 2022;91(12):1061–9.

     45. Brys M, Fox MD, Agarwal S, Biagioni M, Dacpano G, Kumar P, et al. Multifocal repetitive
         TMS for motor and mood symptoms of Parkinson disease: a randomized trial. Neurology.
         2016;87(18):1907–15.

     46. Isserles M, Tendler A, Roth Y, Bystritsky A, Blumberger DM, Ward H, et al. Deep
         transcranial magnetic stimulation combined with brief exposure for posttraumatic stress
         disorder: a prospective multisite randomized trial. Biol Psychiatry. 2021;90(10):721–8.

     47. Gordon EM, Laumann TO, Gilmore AW, Newbold DJ, Greene DJ, Berg JJ, et al. Precision
         functional mapping of individual human brains. Neuron. 2017;95(4):791–807.

     48. Howard RC, Huband N, Duggan C, Mannion A. Exploring the link between personality
         disorder and criminality in a community sample. J Personal Disord. 2008;22(6):589–603.

     49. Yu R, Geddes JR, Fazel S. Personality disorders, violence, and antisocial behavior: a
         systematic review and meta-regression analysis. J Personal Disord. 2012;26(5):775–92.

     50. Velly AM, Mohit S. Epidemiology of pain and relation to psychiatric disorders. Prog
         Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry. 2018;87:159–67.

     51. Löwe B, Levenson J, Depping M, Hüsing P, Kohlmann S, Lehmann M, et al. Somatic
         symptom disorder: a scoping review on the empirical evidence of a new diagnosis. Psychol
         Med. 2022;52(4):632–48.




                                                                                                                                      21
medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2025.02.25.25322842; this version posted February 25, 2025. The copyright holder for this preprint
   (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity.
                                       It is made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license .




     52. Schünemann H, Brożek J, Guyatt G, Oxman A, others. Handbook for grading the quality of
         evidence and the strength of recommendations using the GRADE approach. Updat Oct.
         2013;2013:15.

     53. Caulfield KA, Fleischmann HH, Cox CE, Wolf JP, George MS, McTeague LM.
         Neuronavigation maximizes accuracy and precision in TMS positioning: evidence from
         11,230 distance, angle, and electric field modeling measurements. Brain Stimulat.
         2022;15(5):1192–205.

     54. Horn A, Kühn AA. Lead-DBS: a toolbox for deep brain stimulation electrode localizations
         and visualizations. Neuroimage. 2015;107:127–35.

     55. Neudorfer C, Butenko K, Oxenford S, Rajamani N, Achtzehn J, Goede L, et al. Lead-DBS
         v3. 0: Mapping deep brain stimulation effects to local anatomy and global networks.
         Neuroimage. 2023;268:119862.

     56. Tyagi H, Apergis-Schoute AM, Akram H, Foltynie T, Limousin P, Drummond LM, et al. A
         randomized trial directly comparing ventral capsule and anteromedial subthalamic nucleus
         stimulation in obsessive-compulsive disorder: clinical and imaging evidence for dissociable
         effects. Biol Psychiatry. 2019;85(9):726–34.

     57. Wong JK, Cauraugh JH, Ho KWD, Broderick M, Ramirez-Zamora A, Almeida L, et al. STN
         vs. GPi deep brain stimulation for tremor suppression in Parkinson disease: a systematic
         review and meta-analysis. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2019;58:56–62.




                                                                                                                                      22
medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2025.02.25.25322842; this version posted February 25, 2025. The copyright holder for this preprint
   (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity.
                                       It is made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license .




     Supplementary Materials

     I.Symptom-network evaluations

     Anxiety
     Bias: The anxiety network target was not downgraded for bias, as the effects of key confounders
     were accounted for and the network was shown to be specific to anxiety. Moreover, spatial bias
     was limited by the inclusion of spatially heterogeneous lesion sites and brain stimulation sites
     spanning multiple targets. Inconsistency: It was not downgraded for inconsistency due to
     significant spatial correlations between the lesion, DBS, and TMS networks that comprise it.
     Indirectness: It was downgraded for indirectness as it was generated from lesion and brain
     stimulation patients with anxiety symptoms but not necessarily anxiety disorders. However, it
     should be noted that TMS site connectivity to the anxiety network predicted clinically
     meaningful changes in anxiety symptoms specifically in depressed patients with anxiety
     disorders. Imprecision: It was not downgraded for imprecision, as it was derived from several
     large sample datasets that generally used high resolution techniques to localize lesions/brain
     stimulation sites. Large effect magnitude: Clinical effect sizes were relatively small, so the
     network was not upgraded for effect size. Effect suppression: It was upgraded for suppression, as
     the measured effect size was likely an underestimate due to the integration of multiple causal
     data-sources with unique confounders. Dose effect: It was upgraded for dose-effect, as greater
     connectivity to the network predicted greater clinical improvement with therapeutic brain
     stimulation. Overall grade: The evidence supporting the anxiety network was evaluated as high
     quality.

     OCD
     Bias: The OCD network target was downgraded for bias because: (1) it was not shown to be
     specific to OCD versus other disorders/symptoms, and (2) it was derived from DBS sites that
     were restricted to two small target areas which may have biased results to specific networks.
     Inconsistency: It was not downgraded for inconsistency due to significant spatial correlations
     between OCD networks generated from different DBS datasets. Indirectness: The OCD network
     was generated by brain stimulation data and was therefore not downgraded for indirectness.
     Imprecision: It was not downgraded for imprecision, as it was derived from a relatively large
     sample of DBS sites localized using high resolution techniques. Large effect magnitude: Clinical
     effect sizes were medium, so the network was not upgraded for effect size. Effect suppression: It
     was not upgraded for suppression, as it was generated using one causal modality. Dose effect: It
     was upgraded for dose-effect, as greater DBS site connectivity to the network predicted greater
     clinical improvement. Overall grade: The evidence supporting the OCD network was evaluated
     as high quality.

     Addiction
     Bias: The addiction network target was not downgraded for bias, as the effects of key
     confounders were accounted for and the network was shown to be specific to remission of
     addiction symptoms. Moreover, spatial bias was limited by the inclusion of spatially
     heterogeneous lesion sites. Inconsistency: It was not downgraded for inconsistency due to
     significant spatial correlations between addiction networks generated from different lesion
     datasets. Indirectness: It was downgraded for indirectness because it was generated using lesions



                                                                                                                                      23
medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2025.02.25.25322842; this version posted February 25, 2025. The copyright holder for this preprint
   (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity.
                                       It is made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license .




     and not brain stimulation data. Imprecision: It was not downgraded for imprecision, as it was
     derived from large sample datasets that generally used high resolution techniques to localize
     lesions. Large effect magnitude: Clinical effect sizes were not reported, so the network was not
     upgraded for effect size. Effect suppression: It was not upgraded for suppression, as it was
     generated using one causal modality. Dose effect: It was upgraded for dose-effect, as the electric-
     field peaks of multiple TMS coils with established efficacy for addiction were shown to overlap
     with frontopolar locations with strong connectivity to the addiction network. Overall grade: The
     evidence supporting the addiction network was evaluated as high quality.

     PTSD
     Bias: The PTSD network target was not downgraded for bias, as the effects of key confounders
     were accounted for and the network was shown to be specific to protection against PTSD
     symptoms. Moreover, spatial bias was limited by the inclusion of spatially heterogeneous lesion
     sites. Inconsistency: It was not downgraded for inconsistency as a significant split-half spatial
     correlation was demonstrated. Indirectness: It was downgraded for indirectness because it was
     generated using lesions and not brain stimulation data. Imprecision: It was not downgraded for
     imprecision, as it was derived from a large sample dataset that used high resolution techniques to
     localize lesion sites. Large effect magnitude: Clinical effect sizes were not reported, so the
     network was not upgraded for effect size. Effect suppression: It was not upgraded for
     suppression, as it was generated using one causal modality. Dose effect: It was upgraded for
     dose-effect, as greater TMS induced connectivity changes within the network predicted greater
     PTSD symptom reduction. Overall grade: The evidence supporting the PTSD network was
     evaluated as high quality.

     Pain
     Bias: The pain network target was not downgraded for bias, as the effects of key confounders
     were accounted for and the network was shown to be specific to pain. Moreover, spatial bias was
     limited by the inclusion of spatially heterogeneous lesion sites. Inconsistency: It was not
     downgraded for inconsistency due to significant spatial correlations with a network generated
     from an independent sample of pain causing lesions. Indirectness: It was downgraded for
     indirectness because it was generated using lesions and not brain stimulation data. Imprecision: It
     was downgraded for imprecision, as it was derived from a relatively small number of pain
     causing lesions localized using 2d case report images. However, it should be noted that pain
     causing lesions from the cross-validation dataset were localized using original CT scans. Large
     effect magnitude: Clinical effect sizes were not reported, so the network was not upgraded for
     effect size. Effect suppression: It was not upgraded for suppression, as it was generated using
     one causal modality. Dose effect: The network was upgraded for dose effect, as TMS targets that
     intersected the network were shown to yield stronger effects on pain and individualized TMS
     electric field strength within the pain network was shown to predict pain response. Overall grade:
     The evidence supporting the pain network was evaluated as moderate quality.

     Psychosis
     Bias: The psychosis network target was not downgraded for bias, as the effects of key
     confounders were accounted for and the network was shown to be specific to psychosis.
     Moreover, spatial bias was limited by the inclusion of spatially heterogeneous lesion sites.
     Inconsistency: It was not downgraded for inconsistency as lesion connectivity to the network



                                                                                                                                      24
medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2025.02.25.25322842; this version posted February 25, 2025. The copyright holder for this preprint
   (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity.
                                       It is made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license .




     predicted psychosis symptoms in an out-of-sample dataset. Indirectness: It was downgraded for
     indirectness because it was generated using lesions and not brain stimulation data. Imprecision:
     Although it was generated using 2d case report images, it was not downgraded for imprecision
     because it was derived from a large sample, and the large dataset used to validate it employed
     high resolution techniques. Large effect magnitude: Clinical effect sizes were not reported, so the
     network was not upgraded for effect size. Effect suppression: It was not upgraded for
     suppression, as it was generated using one causal modality. Dose effect: Dose effect relevant
     results were not reported, so the network was not upgraded for dose effect. Overall grade: The
     evidence supporting the psychosis network was evaluated as high quality.

     Aggression
     Bias: The aggression network target was not downgraded for bias, as the effects of key
     confounders were accounted for and the network was shown to be specific to aggression-related
     constructs (i.e., criminality). Moreover, spatial bias was limited by the inclusion of spatially
     heterogeneous lesion sites. Inconsistency: It was not downgraded for inconsistency as lesions
     causing criminality in an independent dataset were shown to significantly intersect the
     aggression network. Indirectness: It was downgraded for indirectness because it was generated
     using lesions and not brain stimulation data. Imprecision: It was not downgraded for imprecision,
     as it was derived from a large sample dataset using high resolution techniques to localize lesion
     sites. Large effect magnitude: The reported clinical effects were indirect (i.e., DBS site
     connectivity to the aggression circuit predicted DBS effects on irritability), so the network was
     not upgraded for effect size. Effect suppression: It was not upgraded for suppression, as it was
     generated using one causal modality. Dose effect: It was not upgraded for dose-effect for the
     same reason that it was not upgraded for large effect magnitude. Overall grade: The evidence
     supporting the aggression network was evaluated as moderate quality.

     Emotional Regulation
     Bias: The emotional regulation network target was not downgraded for bias, as the effects of key
     confounders were accounted for and the ventral portion of the network was specifically linked to
     emotional regulation. Moreover, spatial bias was limited by the inclusion of spatially
     heterogeneous lesion sites. Inconsistency: It was not downgraded for inconsistency as an
     independent sample of lesions causing emotional regulation related dysfunction (i.e., mania,
     criminality, depression) were shown to significantly intersect it. Indirectness: It was downgraded
     for indirectness because it was generated using lesions and not brain stimulation data.
     Imprecision: It was not downgraded for imprecision, as it was derived from a large dataset using
     high resolution techniques to localize lesion sites. Large effect magnitude: Clinical effect sizes
     were not reported, so the network was not upgraded for effect size. Effect suppression: It was not
     upgraded for suppression, as it was generated using one causal modality. Dose effect: Dose
     effect relevant results were not reported, so the network was not upgraded for dose effect.
     Overall grade: The evidence supporting the emotional regulation network was evaluated as
     moderate quality.

     Mania
     Bias: The mania network target was not downgraded for bias, as the effects of key confounders
     were accounted for and the network was shown to be specific to mania. Moreover, spatial bias
     was limited by the inclusion of spatially heterogeneous lesion sites. Inconsistency: It was not



                                                                                                                                      25
medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2025.02.25.25322842; this version posted February 25, 2025. The copyright holder for this preprint
   (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity.
                                       It is made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license .




     downgraded for inconsistency because mania causing lesions from an independent dataset
     overlapped with the network significantly more than control lesions. Indirectness: It was
     downgraded for indirectness because it was generated using lesions and not brain stimulation
     data. Imprecision: It was downgraded for imprecision, as the majority of the lesions used to
     derive and validate (41/56) it were localized using 2d case report images. Moreover, the network
     was generated/validated from a relatively small number of mania causing lesions. Large effect
     magnitude: Clinical effect sizes were not reported, so the network was not upgraded for effect
     size. Effect suppression: It was not upgraded for suppression, as it was generated using one
     causal modality. Dose effect: TMS and DBS data provide preliminary evidence for a dose effect.
     However, these data had noteworthy limitations (i.e., broad, group average targets; small sample)
     and were therefore deemed not strong enough to justify a dose effect upgrade. Overall grade: The
     evidence supporting the mania network was evaluated as low quality.

     Transdiagnostic
     Bias: The transdiagnostic network target was downgraded for bias as it was not shown to be
     specific to psychiatric versus other symptoms. Inconsistency: It was downgraded for
     inconsistency because it was not subject to within or out-of-sample cross-validation.
     Indirectness: It was downgraded for indirectness because it was generated using lesions and not
     brain stimulation data. Imprecision: It was not downgraded for imprecision, as it was derived
     from a large sample dataset that used high resolution techniques to localize lesion sites. Large
     effect magnitude: Clinical effect sizes were not reported, so the network was not upgraded for
     effect size. Effect suppression: It was not upgraded for suppression, as it was generated using
     one causal modality. Dose effect: Dose effect relevant results were not reported, so the network
     was not upgraded for dose effect. Overall grade: The evidence supporting the transdiagnostic
     network was evaluated as very low quality.

     Criminality
     Bias: The criminality network target was not downgraded for bias, as the effects of key
     confounders were accounted for. Moreover, spatial bias was limited by the inclusion of spatially
     heterogeneous lesion sites. Inconsistency: It appeared to share a highly similar spatial
     topography with an out-of-sample lesion criminality network. However, statistically comparisons
     were not performed. Therefore, it was downgraded for inconsistency. Indirectness: It was
     downgraded for indirectness because it was generated using lesions and not brain stimulation
     data. Imprecision: It was downgraded for imprecision, as the lesions used to derive and validate
     it were localized using 2d case report images. Moreover, it was generated by a small number of
     lesions (N = 17). Large effect magnitude: Clinical effect sizes were not reported, so the network
     was not upgraded for effect size. Effect suppression: It was not upgraded for suppression, as it
     was generated using one causal modality. Dose effect: Dose effect relevant results were not
     reported, so the network was not upgraded for dose effect. Overall grade: The evidence
     supporting the criminality network was evaluated as very low quality.




                                                                                                                                      26
medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2025.02.25.25322842; this version posted February 25, 2025. The copyright holder for this preprint
   (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity.
                                       It is made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license .




                      Records identified               Records identified                Records identified
  Identification

                      through PubMed                    through Web of                    through Embase
                         (n = 1390)                         Science                           (n = 66)
                                                           (n = 1747)




                                             Records after duplicates removed
                                                        (n = 2247)
  Screening




                                                                                                                Records excluded
                                                       Records screened                                            (n = 2175)
                                                          (n = 2247)
                                                                                                         No causal network mapping (n = 2164)
                                                                                                             Conference abstract (n = 11)




                                                                                                                Articles excluded
  Eligibility




                                                                                                                      (n =61)
                                                      Articles assessed for
                                                                                                       Structural imaging (n=12)
                                                            eligibility                                Non-psychiatric sample (n = 30)
                                                             (n = 72)                                  Non-unique disorder/symptom (n = 13)
                                                                                                       Case-report (n = 6)




                                                      Studies included in
  Included




                                                         meta-analysis
                                                            (n = 12)
                                                   (including one additional
                                                      study identified by
                                                            authors)




                                                                                                                                      27
medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2025.02.25.25322842; this version posted February 25, 2025. The copyright holder for this preprint
   (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity.
                                       It is made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license .




     Supplementary Fig. 1| PRISMA Diagram
     Flowchart depicting preferred reporting items for systematic reviews and meta-analyses
     (PRISMA) guided study selection process. For information on PRISMA, see:
     http://www.prismastatement.org/.




                                                                                                                                      28
